easybuild/easyconfigs/o/OpenMM/README.md, before:

# OpenMM

  * [OpenMM Website](https://openmm.org/)

  * [OpenMM on GitHub](https://github.com/openmm/openmm)
  
      * [OpenMM GitHub releases](https://github.com/openmm/openmm/releases)


## General information

OpenMM is a high-performance toolkit for molecular simulation. You can use it as
an application, a library, or a flexible programming environment. It include 
extensive language bindings for Python, C, C++, and Fortran.


## EasyBuild

  * [OpenMM in the EasyBuilders repository](https://github.com/easybuilders/easybuild-easyconfigs/tree/develop/easybuild/easyconfigs/o/OpenMM)

  * There is no support for OpenMM in the CSCS repository
  
  * [Spack OpenMM package](https://github.com/spack/spack/blob/develop/var/spack/repos/builtin/packages/openmm/package.py)


### Version 7.5.1 for CPE GNU 21.08

  * The EasyConfig is derived from the EasyBuilders one
  
  * Include a patch to fix problem when building with Doxygen 1.9 used in 
    `buildtools`


### Version 7.5.1 for CPE Cray 21.08

One of the test fail (segfault), be aware of it if you are using this version.

  * The EasyConfig is derived from the EasyBuilders one
  
  * Include a patch to fix problem when building with Doxygen 1.9 used in 
    `buildtools`


### Version 7.7.0 for 21.12 and 22.06
    
  * The EasyConfig is a fairly straightforward evolution of the 7.5.1 one.

  * The test failure for #71 TestSerializeState (with SEGFAULT) is still present
    with the Cray compiler in 22.06. The crash is internal in the code and doesn't
    seem to be the result of a library that is linked in.

Commit message:

OpenMM and dependency for 22.08. The cpeGNU version passes all tests, the cpeCray and cpeAOCC both fail on the same test with a segmentation violation.

easybuild/easyconfigs/o/OpenMM/README.md, after:

# OpenMM

  * [OpenMM Website](https://openmm.org/)

  * [OpenMM on GitHub](https://github.com/openmm/openmm)
  
      * [OpenMM GitHub releases](https://github.com/openmm/openmm/releases)


## General information

OpenMM is a high-performance toolkit for molecular simulation. You can use it as
an application, a library, or a flexible programming environment. It include 
extensive language bindings for Python, C, C++, and Fortran.

The build process does run a number of internal tests before installing in the
final location. However, in EasyConfigs with the Cray and AMD AOCC compilers the tests
have been disabled as one of them crashes. Hence the cpeCray and cpeAOCC versions 
may or may not work for your case.


## EasyBuild

  * [OpenMM in the EasyBuilders repository](https://github.com/easybuilders/easybuild-easyconfigs/tree/develop/easybuild/easyconfigs/o/OpenMM)

  * There is no support for OpenMM in the CSCS repository
  
  * [Spack OpenMM package](https://github.com/spack/spack/blob/develop/var/spack/repos/builtin/packages/openmm/package.py)


### Version 7.5.1 for CPE GNU 21.08

  * The EasyConfig is derived from the EasyBuilders one
  
  * Include a patch to fix problem when building with Doxygen 1.9 used in 
    `buildtools`


### Version 7.5.1 for CPE Cray 21.08

One of the test fail (segfault), be aware of it if you are using this version.

  * The EasyConfig is derived from the EasyBuilders one
  
  * Include a patch to fix problem when building with Doxygen 1.9 used in 
    `buildtools`


### Version 7.7.0 for 21.12, 22.06 and 22.08
    
  * The EasyConfig is a fairly straightforward evolution of the 7.5.1 one.

  * The test failure for #71 TestSerializeState (with SEGFAULT) is still present
    with the Cray compiler in 22.06 and 22.08. The crash is internal in the code 
    and doesn't seem to be the result of a library that is linked in.
    
    The same test also fails with cpeAOCC/22.08, so it seems to be caused by either
    a bug in OpenMM that shows with clang-based compilers or a bug in clang.
