easybuild/easyconfigs/q/QuantumESPRESSO/USER.md, before:

[quantum-espresso]: https://www.quantum-espresso.org/
[lumi-c]: https://docs.lumi-supercomputer.eu/hardware/compute/lumic/
[lumi-g]: https://docs.lumi-supercomputer.eu/hardware/compute/lumig/
[eap]: https://docs.lumi-supercomputer.eu/hardware/compute/eap/
[slurm-quickstart]: https://docs.lumi-supercomputer.eu/runjobs/scheduled-jobs/slurm-quickstart/
[slurm-bindings]: https://docs.lumi-supercomputer.eu/runjobs/scheduled-jobs/distribution-binding#slurm-binding-options
[batch-job]: https://docs.lumi-supercomputer.eu/runjobs/scheduled-jobs/batch-job/
[EasyBuild]: https://docs.lumi-supercomputer.eu/software/installing/easybuild/

# Quantum ESPRESSO on LUMI

[Quantum ESPRESSO (QE)][quantum-espresso] is "an integrated suite of
Open-Source computer codes for electronic-structure calculations and materials
modeling at the nanoscale. It is based on density-functional theory, plane
waves, and pseudopotentials.". In general, it runs well on [LUMI-C][lumi-c].

**There is currently no version of Quantum Espresso that can use the AMD GPUs
in the [LUMI-G][lumi-g].**

## Installing Quantum ESPRESSO

We provide automatic installation scripts for several versions of QE. In
general, the installation procedure is described on the [EasyBuild
page][EasyBuild]. The step by step procedure to install QE 7.1
is:

1. Load the LUMI software environment: `module load LUMI/24.03`.
2. Select the LUMI-C partition: `module load partition/C`.
3. Load the EasyBuild module: `module load EasyBuild-user`.

Then, you can run the install command

```bash
$ eb -r QuantumESPRESSO-7.3.1-cpeGNU-24.03.eb
```

The installation takes about 3 minutes. Afterwards, you will have a module
called "QuantumESPRESSO/7.3.1-cpeGNU-24.03" installed in your home directory.
Load the module to use it

```bash
$ module load QuantumESPRESSO/7.3.1-cpeGNU-24.03.0
```

The usual QE binaries, `pw.x`, `ph.x` etc. will now be in your `PATH`. Launch
QE via the [Slurm scheduler][slurm-quickstart], e.g. `srun pw.x`. Please note
that you must do `module load LUMI/24.03 partition/C` to see your Quantum
Espresso module in the module system. The same applies to the Slurm batch
scripts which you send to the compute nodes.

You can see other versions of QE that can be automatically installed by running
the EasyBuild command

```bash
$ eb -S QuantumESPRESSO
```

or checking the list further down on this page
or checking the
[LUMI-EasyBuild-contrib](https://github.com/Lumi-supercomputer/LUMI-EasyBuild-contrib/tree/main/easybuild/easyconfigs/q/QuantumESPRESSO)
repository on GitHub directly. It is generally recommended to use the latest
version of Quantum Espresso compiled with the most current Cray programming
environment. Older version often work, but may not run optimally as the system
configuration (software, libraries, drivers, underlying hardware etc.) may have
changed since they were originally built.

## Example batch scripts

A typical [batch job][batch-job] using 2 compute nodes and MPI only:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
#SBATCH -J GaAs128 
#SBATCH -N 2
#SBATCH --partition=small
#SBATCH -t 00:30:00
#SBATCH --mem=200G
#SBATCH --exclusive --no-requeue
#SBATCH -A project_XYZ
#SBATCH --ntasks-per-node=128
#SBATCH -c 1

export OMP_NUM_THREADS=1

module load LUMI/24.03 
module load partition/C 
module load QuantumESPRESSO/7.3.1-cpeGNU-24.03

srun pw.x -nk 4 -i gab128.in > gab128.out
```

A typical batch job with MPI and 4 OpenMP threads per rank:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
#SBATCH -J GaAs128 
#SBATCH -N 2
#SBATCH --partition=small
#SBATCH -t 00:30:00
#SBATCH --mem=200G
#SBATCH --exclusive --no-requeue
#SBATCH -A project_XYZ
#SBATCH --ntasks-per-node=32
#SBATCH -c 4

export OMP_NUM_THREADS=4
export OMP_PLACES=cores
export OMP_PROC_BIND=close

module load LUMI/24.03 
module load partition/C 
module load QuantumESPRESSO/7.3.1-cpeGNU-24.03

srun pw.x -nk 4 -i gab128.in > gab128.out
```

## Tuning recommendations

**Making use of k-point parallelization (the flag `-nk`) is very important in
Quantum Espresso**. In the following test case, a GaAs supercell with
128-atoms, an SCF cycle completes in a about 1 hour on a [LUMI-C][lumi-c]
compute node using the default settings without k-point parallelization. By
supplying `-nk 2`, the runtime is cut to 38 minutes (1.3x faster). K-point
parallelization is so important that it can be advantageous to reduce to the
number of cores used on the compute nodes, and/or increase the number of
k-points just to get even multiples which maximizes the value of `-nk`.
Consider the case with 14 k-points: 128 cores are not evenly divisible by 14,
which prevents the full use of k-point parallelization. But what about 14*8 =
112 cores? The graph below shows that you can actually gain speed by reducing
the number of active cores and carefully placing the MPI ranks on the right
processor cores.

<figure>
  <img
    src="files/gab128-qe-intranode.png"
    width="560"
    alt="Intra-node scaling of GaAs 128 supercell in Quantum Espresso on LUMI-C"
  >
  <figcaption>Intra-node scaling of GaAs 128 supercell in Quantum Espresso</figcaption>
</figure>

The key to achieving the best performance is to [explicitly bind the MPI
ranks][slurm-bindings] so
that 7 cores are used on each core complex die (CCD). This means that the 8th
core needs to be skipped on each CCD in the EPYC CPUs in [LUMI-C][lumi-c].
There is no easy way to do this in Slurm, other than hard-coding it like
this:
  
```bash
$ srun --cpu-bind=map_cpu:0,1,2,3,4,5,6,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,16,17,18,19,20,21,22,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,40,41,42,43,44,45,46,48,49,50,51,52,53,54,56,57,58,59,60,61,62,64,65,66,67,68,69,70,72,73,74,75,76,77,78,80,81,82,83,84,85,86,88,89,90,91,92,93,94,96,97,98,99,100,101,102,104,105,106,107,108,109,110,112,113,114,115,116,117,118,120,121,122,123,124,125,126 pw.x ....
```

It is especially important to do this if you run with e.g. half the number of
cores on compute node to free up memory.
  
**OpenMP parallelization can be used primarily to save memory**. It is
automatically used when `OMP_NUM_THREADS` is set to something else than 1 in
the job script. OpenMP seems to work with decent efficiency on LUMI-C. Try
testing lower numbers of `OMP_NUM_THREADS` first, about 2-4. Typically you will
get about the same speed as with MPI only for regular DFT calculations, maybe
somewhat faster (5-10%). The main benefit, however, is considerably less memory
usage, about 20% less for DFT. We have not tested the effect on exact exchange
or other higher order methods yet.

**FFT task parallelization and pencil decomposition are both necessary when
running a large number of cores per pool of k-points**. The `-ntg` flag alone
seems to not work in recent versions of Quantum Espresso. You need to use it
together with pencil decomposition (`-pd true`), which is an undocumented
feature. Typically, small values of `-ntg` are sufficient to see a speed-up,
for example `-ntg 2 -pd true`, but you need to increase `-ntg` as the number of
cores increases.

**For sub-space diagonalization with SCALAPACK (the flag `-nd`), keeping the
default (maximum) value is typically best.** Reducing it will typically just
increase the runtime.

**The RMM-DIIS diagonalization algorithm is significantly faster than the
Davidson algorithm on LUMI**. This is the option `diagonalization=rmm-davidson`
in the input file. For regular DFT, it can be 50% faster per SCF step, so it is
worth trying out. As usual, the electronic convergence may not be as a stable
as with the Davidson algorithm, so it depends on the use case whether there is
a net gain.

Commit message:

Updated the wording on GPU support for QE.

easybuild/easyconfigs/q/QuantumESPRESSO/USER.md, after:

[quantum-espresso]: https://www.quantum-espresso.org/
[lumi-c]: https://docs.lumi-supercomputer.eu/hardware/compute/lumic/
[lumi-g]: https://docs.lumi-supercomputer.eu/hardware/compute/lumig/
[eap]: https://docs.lumi-supercomputer.eu/hardware/compute/eap/
[slurm-quickstart]: https://docs.lumi-supercomputer.eu/runjobs/scheduled-jobs/slurm-quickstart/
[slurm-bindings]: https://docs.lumi-supercomputer.eu/runjobs/scheduled-jobs/distribution-binding#slurm-binding-options
[batch-job]: https://docs.lumi-supercomputer.eu/runjobs/scheduled-jobs/batch-job/
[EasyBuild]: https://docs.lumi-supercomputer.eu/software/installing/easybuild/

# Quantum ESPRESSO on LUMI

[Quantum ESPRESSO (QE)][quantum-espresso] is "an integrated suite of
Open-Source computer codes for electronic-structure calculations and materials
modeling at the nanoscale. It is based on density-functional theory, plane
waves, and pseudopotentials.". In general, it runs well on [LUMI-C][lumi-c].

**There is currently (May 2025 last update) no AMD release of QE that we can support from the LUMI User
Support Team. Some recent releases have support for AMD GPUs via OpenMP offload.
However, [version 7.4.1omp](https://gitlab.com/QEF/q-e-omp-repository/-/releases/qe-7.4.1omp) requires 
[the Cray compiler CCE 15 or older](https://gitlab.com/QEF/q-e/-/wikis/Support/Build-cray-gpu)
as there are issues with CCE 16 to 18. CCE 15 requires using a ROCm version (5.2,
though 5.4 worked also) that is not
supported by the current driver on LUMI, and in fact, is even known to fail.
The Cray PE 25.03, expected to be installed on LUMI in late summer of 2025, may
solve the issues with QE on the LUMI-G GPUs.
Note that even though we do have CPE 25.03 with CCE 19 in [a container](c/ccpe/index.md), this 
container cannot be used on LUMI-G to run software as it is based on ROCm 6.3 which also 
has issues on the current AMD GPU driver.**

## Installing Quantum ESPRESSO

We provide automatic installation scripts for several versions of QE. In
general, the installation procedure is described on the [EasyBuild
page][EasyBuild]. The step by step procedure to install QE 7.1
is:

1. Load the LUMI software environment: `module load LUMI/24.03`.
2. Select the LUMI-C partition: `module load partition/C`.
3. Load the EasyBuild module: `module load EasyBuild-user`.

Then, you can run the install command

```bash
$ eb -r QuantumESPRESSO-7.3.1-cpeGNU-24.03.eb
```

The installation takes about 3 minutes. Afterwards, you will have a module
called "QuantumESPRESSO/7.3.1-cpeGNU-24.03" installed in your home directory.
Load the module to use it

```bash
$ module load QuantumESPRESSO/7.3.1-cpeGNU-24.03.0
```

The usual QE binaries, `pw.x`, `ph.x` etc. will now be in your `PATH`. Launch
QE via the [Slurm scheduler][slurm-quickstart], e.g. `srun pw.x`. Please note
that you must do `module load LUMI/24.03 partition/C` to see your Quantum
Espresso module in the module system. The same applies to the Slurm batch
scripts which you send to the compute nodes.

You can see other versions of QE that can be automatically installed by running
the EasyBuild command

```bash
$ eb -S QuantumESPRESSO
```

or checking the list further down on this page
or checking the
[LUMI-EasyBuild-contrib](https://github.com/Lumi-supercomputer/LUMI-EasyBuild-contrib/tree/main/easybuild/easyconfigs/q/QuantumESPRESSO)
repository on GitHub directly. It is generally recommended to use the latest
version of Quantum Espresso compiled with the most current Cray programming
environment. Older version often work, but may not run optimally as the system
configuration (software, libraries, drivers, underlying hardware etc.) may have
changed since they were originally built.

## Example batch scripts

A typical [batch job][batch-job] using 2 compute nodes and MPI only:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
#SBATCH -J GaAs128 
#SBATCH -N 2
#SBATCH --partition=small
#SBATCH -t 00:30:00
#SBATCH --mem=200G
#SBATCH --exclusive --no-requeue
#SBATCH -A project_XYZ
#SBATCH --ntasks-per-node=128
#SBATCH -c 1

export OMP_NUM_THREADS=1

module load LUMI/24.03 
module load partition/C 
module load QuantumESPRESSO/7.3.1-cpeGNU-24.03

srun pw.x -nk 4 -i gab128.in > gab128.out
```

A typical batch job with MPI and 4 OpenMP threads per rank:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
#SBATCH -J GaAs128 
#SBATCH -N 2
#SBATCH --partition=small
#SBATCH -t 00:30:00
#SBATCH --mem=200G
#SBATCH --exclusive --no-requeue
#SBATCH -A project_XYZ
#SBATCH --ntasks-per-node=32
#SBATCH -c 4

export OMP_NUM_THREADS=4
export OMP_PLACES=cores
export OMP_PROC_BIND=close

module load LUMI/24.03 
module load partition/C 
module load QuantumESPRESSO/7.3.1-cpeGNU-24.03

srun pw.x -nk 4 -i gab128.in > gab128.out
```

## Tuning recommendations

**Making use of k-point parallelization (the flag `-nk`) is very important in
Quantum Espresso**. In the following test case, a GaAs supercell with
128-atoms, an SCF cycle completes in a about 1 hour on a [LUMI-C][lumi-c]
compute node using the default settings without k-point parallelization. By
supplying `-nk 2`, the runtime is cut to 38 minutes (1.3x faster). K-point
parallelization is so important that it can be advantageous to reduce to the
number of cores used on the compute nodes, and/or increase the number of
k-points just to get even multiples which maximizes the value of `-nk`.
Consider the case with 14 k-points: 128 cores are not evenly divisible by 14,
which prevents the full use of k-point parallelization. But what about 14*8 =
112 cores? The graph below shows that you can actually gain speed by reducing
the number of active cores and carefully placing the MPI ranks on the right
processor cores.

<figure>
  <img
    src="files/gab128-qe-intranode.png"
    width="560"
    alt="Intra-node scaling of GaAs 128 supercell in Quantum Espresso on LUMI-C"
  >
  <figcaption>Intra-node scaling of GaAs 128 supercell in Quantum Espresso</figcaption>
</figure>

The key to achieving the best performance is to [explicitly bind the MPI
ranks][slurm-bindings] so
that 7 cores are used on each core complex die (CCD). This means that the 8th
core needs to be skipped on each CCD in the EPYC CPUs in [LUMI-C][lumi-c].
There is no easy way to do this in Slurm, other than hard-coding it like
this:
  
```bash
$ srun --cpu-bind=map_cpu:0,1,2,3,4,5,6,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,16,17,18,19,20,21,22,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,40,41,42,43,44,45,46,48,49,50,51,52,53,54,56,57,58,59,60,61,62,64,65,66,67,68,69,70,72,73,74,75,76,77,78,80,81,82,83,84,85,86,88,89,90,91,92,93,94,96,97,98,99,100,101,102,104,105,106,107,108,109,110,112,113,114,115,116,117,118,120,121,122,123,124,125,126 pw.x ....
```

It is especially important to do this if you run with e.g. half the number of
cores on compute node to free up memory.
  
**OpenMP parallelization can be used primarily to save memory**. It is
automatically used when `OMP_NUM_THREADS` is set to something else than 1 in
the job script. OpenMP seems to work with decent efficiency on LUMI-C. Try
testing lower numbers of `OMP_NUM_THREADS` first, about 2-4. Typically you will
get about the same speed as with MPI only for regular DFT calculations, maybe
somewhat faster (5-10%). The main benefit, however, is considerably less memory
usage, about 20% less for DFT. We have not tested the effect on exact exchange
or other higher order methods yet.

**FFT task parallelization and pencil decomposition are both necessary when
running a large number of cores per pool of k-points**. The `-ntg` flag alone
seems to not work in recent versions of Quantum Espresso. You need to use it
together with pencil decomposition (`-pd true`), which is an undocumented
feature. Typically, small values of `-ntg` are sufficient to see a speed-up,
for example `-ntg 2 -pd true`, but you need to increase `-ntg` as the number of
cores increases.

**For sub-space diagonalization with SCALAPACK (the flag `-nd`), keeping the
default (maximum) value is typically best.** Reducing it will typically just
increase the runtime.

**The RMM-DIIS diagonalization algorithm is significantly faster than the
Davidson algorithm on LUMI**. This is the option `diagonalization=rmm-davidson`
in the input file. For regular DFT, it can be 50% faster per SCF step, so it is
worth trying out. As usual, the electronic convergence may not be as a stable
as with the Davidson algorithm, so it depends on the use case whether there is
a net gain.
